docs/src/content/docs/configuration/notification-section.mdx, before:

---
title: Notification Sections
---

# Notification Section Options (`notificationsSections`)

Defines sections in the dashboard's Notifications view.

- Every section must define a [`title`] and [`filters`].
- When you define [`limit`] for a section, that value overrides the
  [`defaults.notificationsLimit`] setting.

[`title`]: #notification-title-title
[`filters`]: #notification-filters-filters
[`limit`]: #notification-fetch-limit-limit
[`defaults.notificationsLimit`]: /configuration/defaults/#notifications-fetch-limit-notificationslimit

## Search Section

The Notifications view includes a search section (indicated by a magnifying glass icon) as the first tab. This serves as a scratchpad for one-off searches without modifying your configured sections.

- Default filter: `archived:false`
- Respects `smartFilteringAtLaunch`: when enabled and running from a git repository, the search automatically scopes to that repo
- Use the `/` key to focus the search bar and enter custom queries

## Default Sections

By default, the dashboard includes these notification sections:

```yaml
notificationsSections:
  - title: All
    filters: ""
  - title: Created
    filters: "reason:author"
  - title: Participating
    filters: "reason:participating"
  - title: Mentioned
    filters: "reason:mention"
  - title: Review Requested
    filters: "reason:review-requested"
  - title: Assigned
    filters: "reason:assign"
  - title: Subscribed
    filters: "reason:subscribed"
  - title: Team Mentioned
    filters: "reason:team-mention"
```

You can customize these by defining your own `notificationsSections` in your config file.

## Notification Title (`title`)

This setting defines the section's name. The dashboard displays this value in the tabs for
the Notifications view.

## Notification Filters (`filters`)

This setting defines the filters for notifications in the section's table. Notification filters differ from PR and Issue filters because they use client-side filtering.

### Available Filters

#### Read State Filters

| Filter | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `is:unread` | Show only unread notifications |
| `is:read` | Show only read notifications |
| `is:all` | Show both read and unread notifications |
| `is:done` | Show archived/done notifications |

#### Reason Filters

| Filter | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `reason:author` | Activity on threads you created |
| `reason:comment` | Someone commented on a thread you're subscribed to |
| `reason:mention` | You were @mentioned |
| `reason:review-requested` | Your review was requested on a PR |
| `reason:assign` | You were assigned |
| `reason:subscribed` | Activity on threads you're watching |
| `reason:team-mention` | Your team was @mentioned |
| `reason:state-change` | Thread state changed (merged, closed, etc.) |
| `reason:ci-activity` | CI workflow activity |
| `reason:participating` | Meta-filter that expands to: author, comment, mention, review-requested, assign, state-change |

#### Repository Filters

| Filter | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `repo:owner/name` | Show notifications only from the specified repository |

### Filter Examples

```yaml
# Show only notifications where you were mentioned
- title: Mentioned
  filters: "reason:mention"

# Show unread notifications from a specific repo
- title: My Project
  filters: "is:unread repo:myorg/myproject"

# Show notifications where you're actively participating
- title: Participating
  filters: "reason:participating"

# Combine multiple reason filters
- title: Review & Mentions
  filters: "reason:review-requested reason:mention"
```

### Filter Behavior

- **Default behavior**: With no filters or empty filters, the section shows unread notifications plus any bookmarked notifications
- **Explicit `is:unread`**: Shows only unread notifications, excluding bookmarked read notifications
- **Reason filters**: Applied client-side after fetching from GitHub's API

## Notification Fetch Limit (`limit`)

| Type    | Minimum | Default |
| :------ | :-----: | :-----: |
| Integer |    1    |   20    |

This setting defines how many notifications the dashboard should fetch for the section when:

- The dashboard first loads.
- You navigate to the next notification in a table without another fetched notification to display.
- You use the [refresh current section] or [refresh all sections] commands.

This setting overrides the [`defaults.notificationsLimit`] setting.

[refresh current section]: /getting-started/keybindings/global/#r---refresh-current-section
[refresh all sections]: /getting-started/keybindings/global/#r---refresh-all-sections
[`defaults.notificationsLimit`]: /configuration/defaults/#notifications-fetch-limit-notificationslimit

Commit message:

fix(notifications): fix confirmation prompt, refetch after mark-all-done, and show read notifications by default (#785)

docs/src/content/docs/configuration/notification-section.mdx, after:

---
title: Notification Sections
---

# Notification Section Options (`notificationsSections`)

Defines sections in the dashboard's Notifications view.

- Every section must define a [`title`] and [`filters`].
- When you define [`limit`] for a section, that value overrides the
  [`defaults.notificationsLimit`] setting.

[`title`]: #notification-title-title
[`filters`]: #notification-filters-filters
[`limit`]: #notification-fetch-limit-limit
[`defaults.notificationsLimit`]: /configuration/defaults/#notifications-fetch-limit-notificationslimit

## Search Section

The Notifications view includes a search section (indicated by a magnifying glass icon) as the first tab. This serves as a scratchpad for one-off searches without modifying your configured sections.

- Default filter: `archived:false`
- Respects `smartFilteringAtLaunch`: when enabled and running from a git repository, the search automatically scopes to that repo
- Use the `/` key to focus the search bar and enter custom queries

## Default Sections

By default, the dashboard includes these notification sections:

```yaml
notificationsSections:
  - title: All
    filters: ""
  - title: Created
    filters: "reason:author"
  - title: Participating
    filters: "reason:participating"
  - title: Mentioned
    filters: "reason:mention"
  - title: Review Requested
    filters: "reason:review-requested"
  - title: Assigned
    filters: "reason:assign"
  - title: Subscribed
    filters: "reason:subscribed"
  - title: Team Mentioned
    filters: "reason:team-mention"
```

You can customize these by defining your own `notificationsSections` in your config file.

## Notification Title (`title`)

This setting defines the section's name. The dashboard displays this value in the tabs for
the Notifications view.

## Notification Filters (`filters`)

This setting defines the filters for notifications in the section's table. Notification filters differ from PR and Issue filters because they use client-side filtering.

### Available Filters

#### Read State Filters

| Filter | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `is:unread` | Show only unread notifications |
| `is:read` | Show only read notifications |
| `is:all` | Show both read and unread notifications |
| `is:done` | Show archived/done notifications |

#### Reason Filters

| Filter | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `reason:author` | Activity on threads you created |
| `reason:comment` | Someone commented on a thread you're subscribed to |
| `reason:mention` | You were @mentioned |
| `reason:review-requested` | Your review was requested on a PR |
| `reason:assign` | You were assigned |
| `reason:subscribed` | Activity on threads you're watching |
| `reason:team-mention` | Your team was @mentioned |
| `reason:state-change` | Thread state changed (merged, closed, etc.) |
| `reason:ci-activity` | CI workflow activity |
| `reason:participating` | Meta-filter that expands to: author, comment, mention, review-requested, assign, state-change |

#### Repository Filters

| Filter | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `repo:owner/name` | Show notifications only from the specified repository |

### Filter Examples

```yaml
# Show only notifications where you were mentioned
- title: Mentioned
  filters: "reason:mention"

# Show unread notifications from a specific repo
- title: My Project
  filters: "is:unread repo:myorg/myproject"

# Show notifications where you're actively participating
- title: Participating
  filters: "reason:participating"

# Combine multiple reason filters
- title: Review & Mentions
  filters: "reason:review-requested reason:mention"
```

### Filter Behavior

- **Default behavior**: With no filters or empty filters, the section shows all notifications (both read and unread), matching GitHub's default behavior. To show only unread notifications by default, set `includeReadNotifications: false` in your config.
- **Explicit `is:unread`**: Shows only unread notifications, excluding bookmarked read notifications. This overrides the `includeReadNotifications` setting.
- **Reason filters**: Applied client-side after fetching from GitHub's API

## Notification Fetch Limit (`limit`)

| Type    | Minimum | Default |
| :------ | :-----: | :-----: |
| Integer |    1    |   20    |

This setting defines how many notifications the dashboard should fetch for the section when:

- The dashboard first loads.
- You navigate to the next notification in a table without another fetched notification to display.
- You use the [refresh current section] or [refresh all sections] commands.

This setting overrides the [`defaults.notificationsLimit`] setting.

[refresh current section]: /getting-started/keybindings/global/#r---refresh-current-section
[refresh all sections]: /getting-started/keybindings/global/#r---refresh-all-sections
[`defaults.notificationsLimit`]: /configuration/defaults/#notifications-fetch-limit-notificationslimit
